Hello friends
In this video let us learn
how to write an algorithm, pseudo code and draw flow chart
for the task to find the sum of two numbers
For example, if we have two numbers 10 and 20 given as the input
we have to find the sum of these two numbers
which is 30 as the output.
So that is the task.
We have to read two numbers from the user
find the sum and print the result as the output.
So how can we perform this task?
Let us write the algorithm for this task.
So the first step is to start the process
And we will need three variables here.
num1 and num2 to store the input numbers
and sum to store the result.
So second step is to declare these three variables
Now we have the variables ready.
But we don't have the numbers to be added
It should be read from the user
to num1 and num2
So that is the third step.
Read the numbers from user to num1 and num2.
Now the numbers are here
Now we need to find the sum
and store it in variable sum.
So forth step is to add num1 and num2
and the result is assigned to variable sum.
Now fifth step is to print the result on screen
That is display sum.
And the last step is to stop the process
So that was the algorithm.
Now let us write the pseudo code.
First begin and get input to num1 and num2
And next, add num1 and num2 and assign to sum
So sum=num1+num2
finally print sum and end.
So that was the pseudo code.
And now let us draw the flow chart for this process
First start and to start a process or end a process
we use this oval symbol
Next get input to x and y
and we use a parallelogram symbol for input and output functions.
Next we have to find sum which is equal to x+y
And we will use this rectangle symbol
to denote these kind of processings or computations
Next print this sum on the screen and end
So our task was to read two numbers from user
and find and print it's sum on the screen
and we learnt how to write algorithm, pseudo code and flowchart for this task.